How to make Free Calls to Traditional Phones with Google Hangouts(Formerly Messenger)
=====================================================================================

Before I begin, this procedure requires a Google account and all that entails.
If you don't want to do that, don't bother with it. It's Google Messenger.

So far, I've covered alot about how to send SMS without a connection to a phone
network, but haven't said anything about voice calls. Doing voice calls to a
phone number without another corresponding phone number is hard, but fortunately
there is a workaround. Google Messenger is **uniquely** capable of making phone
calls to many phones without necessarily needing to install the app or even have
a phone-like device, it can be used as a browser extension from any PC capable
of running Chrome. Unfortunately, this solution will only allow you to make
outgoing calls, so make sure to leave a callback number, such as Google Voice,
if you leave a message. The other drawback, of course, is Google, who make their
money by marketing data based on your activity to advertisers, so make sure you
read the privacy policy to make sure it fits your needs. Without further ado,
let's jump right in.

Getting the Application
-----------------------

Depending on your platform, you'll need to either install the Google Hangouts
app for Android or iOS,

###On Android

On Android, it's only possible to get the Hangout's application from the Google
Play Store as far as I can tell. There appear to be third party clients for
Hangouts on the Amazon App Store, but I haven't tried them yet. For Android,
Hangouts comes in two apps, the Hangouts Client and the Hangouts Dialer, which
enables you to connect to regular phones and integrate your Google Voice
information.

  1. First, you need to install the the [Hangouts](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.google.android.talk&hl=en)
  app and sign in to your Google account if your phone doesn't automatically do
  it for you.
  2. Next, you need to install the [Hangouts Dialer](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.google.android.apps.hangoutsdialer&hl=en)
  app. You will probably be signed in automatically from the previous step, but
  make sure just in case.


###On iOS

I don't have an iOS device. I'd appreciate a report of someone running Hangouts
on a non-jailbroken iPod. To do so, see the [Github issues](https://github.com/phonefree/phonefree.github.io/issues/1)
or post in the [r/phoneless subreddit](https://reddit.com/r/phoneless).

###On Windows/Mac/Linux

With Windows, Mac, and Linux PC's there is only one Hangouts client and it's
a Chrome browser extension. This, of course, requires you to install Chrome(Or
another Chrome based browser such as Iridium, but your mileage may vary and you
will have to hack a bit to get the extension installed and running) to satisfy
the needs of it's environment. Then you'll need to install the extension from
the Chrome store.

  1. Get [Chrome Browser](https://www.google.com/chrome/) and sign your browser
  into your google account.
  2. Get the [Extension](https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/google-hangouts/nckgahadagoaajjgafhacjanaoiihapd?hl=en)


Linking with Google Voice(Optional)
-----------------------------------

If you have a Google Voice account, you can also link your Google Hangouts
account to your Google Voice verified number, which allows you to make calls
with a long-term phone number that will show up on caller ID, allowing other
users to call you back. This allows you to have a pretty much feature-complete
voice calling solution with zero dependence on a paid phone plan from a phone
company. Simply signing up for Hangouts and Voice from the same Google account,
and signing in to them on the same browser or device should link the accounts.

Making a Phone Call
-------------------

Once you've got the apps installed and configured, you can use them to make
phone calls.

On Android, launch the Hangouts Dialer app and dial your first number. It's
pretty much just like the regular dialer application, maybe even a little nicer.
Call a friend's phone and on the Caller ID you'll see your Google Voice number.

On PC, you can launch your Chrome browser and you'll see the Hangouts extension
in the top-right corner next to the menu. Launching it will start the Hangouts
app, which will be visible in your task bar even after you close Chrome. From
the app, you can enter a phone number and verify the process in exactly the same
way one would on Android.
